.. _compile_run_heisenbug:

Heisenbug
=========

`heisenbug <https://www.geophysik.uni-muenchen.de/research/geocomputing/heisenbug>`_ 
is a computing cluster of the computational seismology group at LMU.
It is an AMD EPYC based machine with 128 cores that can run 256 threads (near) simultaneously. 
It also has 2 GPGPUs (NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090), that can be used to run the GPU version of SeisSol.
The RTX 3090 belongs to a consumer kind of graphics cards and thus does not perform well with double precision. 
Therefore, it is preferable to compile SeisSol with single precision.

A module integrating all libraries relevant for compiling SeisSol with CUDA and SYCL is available on heisenbug.
It can be discovered at startup after adding the following to ``~/.bashrc``:

.. code-block:: bash

    module use /import/exception-dump/ulrich/spack/modules/linux-debian11-zen2

It is then loaded with:

.. code-block:: bash

    # load the (first in the list) seissol-env module compiled with cuda support
    module load $(module avail seissol-env/*-cuda-* | awk '/seissol-env/ {print $1}')

This module has been compiled based on the main branch of https://github.com/SeisSol/seissol-spack-aid with the command:

.. code-block:: bash

    spack install -j 40 --fresh seissol-env +cuda %gcc@10
    spack module tcl refresh $(spack find -d --format "{name}{/hash:5}" seissol-env +cuda)

Install YATeTo GPU backends (i.e., GemmForge and ChainForge) as 
shown :ref:`here <gemmforge_installation>`.

Then clone SeisSol with:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/SeisSol/SeisSol.git
    cd SeisSol
    git submodule update --init --recursive


To compile the GPU version of SeisSol on heisenbug, use the following cmake options 

.. code-block:: bash

    -DDEVICE_ARCH=sm_86 -DHOST_ARCH=hsw -DDEVICE_BACKEND=cuda -DPRECISION=single -DHIPSYCL_CUDA_PATH=$CUDA_HOME


Use ``-DCOMMTHREAD=ON`` for multiple GPUs, and ``-DCOMMTHREAD=OFF`` for one GPU.

As there is no queuing system on heisenbug, you need to make sure that nobody is running anything on the GPUs.
You can check that by running ``nvidia-smi`` (it should return ``No running processes found``).

To run on one GPU (here with order 4, elastic), use simply:

.. code-block:: bash

    export OMP_NUM_THREADS=1
    export OMP_PLACES="cores"
    export OMP_PROC_BIND=spread
    ./launch ./SeisSol_RelWithDebInfo_ssm_86_cuda_6_elastic ./parameters.par

`launch` is a simple bash helper script. It is generated by CMake, in the build directory).

On 2 ranks, use:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Note that it is possible to increase OMP_NUM_THREADS 
    # This will speed up (the rare) portions of the code running only CPUs, e.g. the wiggle factor calculation 
    export OMP_NUM_THREADS=1 
    export OMP_PLACES="cores"
    export OMP_PROC_BIND=spread
    mpirun -n 2 --map-by ppr:1:numa:pe=2 --report-bindings ./launch ./SeisSol_RelWithDebInfo_ssm_86_cuda_6_elastic ./parameters.par
